#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.11
# by the following command:
#
#    make upgrade
#
appdirs==1.4.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   fs
arrow==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cookiecutter
asgiref==3.9.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django
astroid==3.3.11
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pylint
    #   pylint-celery
attrs==25.3.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
backports-tarfile==1.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   jaraco-context
binaryornot==0.4.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cookiecutter
bleach==6.2.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
boto3==1.40.21
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   fs-s3fs
botocore==1.40.21
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   boto3
    #   s3transfer
cachetools==6.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   tox
certifi==2025.8.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   requests
cffi==1.17.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cryptography
    #   pynacl
chardet==5.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   binaryornot
    #   tox
charset-normalizer==3.4.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   requests
click==8.2.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   click-log
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-lint
click-log==0.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-lint
code-annotations==2.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-lint
colorama==0.4.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   tox
cookiecutter==2.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock-sdk
coverage[toml]==7.10.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   coveralls
coveralls==4.0.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
cryptography==45.0.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   secretstorage
ddt==1.7.2
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
dill==0.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pylint
distlib==0.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   virtualenv
django==4.2.23
    # via
    #   -c requirements/common_constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django-appconf
    #   django-config-models
    #   django-crum
    #   django-filter
    #   django-statici18n
    #   django-waffle
    #   djangorestframework
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   jsonfield
    #   openedx-django-pyfs
    #   openedx-filters
    #   xblock-sdk
django-appconf==1.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django-statici18n
django-config-models==2.9.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-crum==0.7.9
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
django-filter==25.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-statici18n==2.6.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
django-waffle==5.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
djangorestframework==3.16.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django-config-models
dnspython==2.7.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pymongo
docopt==0.6.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   coveralls
docutils==0.22
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   readme-renderer
edx-ccx-keys==2.0.2
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
edx-django-utils==8.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django-config-models
edx-lint==5.6.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
edx-opaque-keys[django]==3.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-ccx-keys
    #   openedx-filters
filelock==3.19.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   tox
    #   virtualenv
fs==2.4.16
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   fs-s3fs
    #   openedx-django-pyfs
    #   xblock
fs-s3fs==1.1.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   openedx-django-pyfs
    #   xblock-sdk
id==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   twine
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   requests
importlib-metadata==8.7.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   keyring
isort==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pylint
jaraco-classes==3.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   keyring
jaraco-context==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   keyring
jaraco-functools==4.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   keyring
jeepney==0.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   keyring
    #   secretstorage
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
jmespath==1.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   boto3
    #   botocore
jsonfield==3.2.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
keyring==25.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   twine
lazy==1.6
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
lxml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
mako==1.3.10
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock
markdown-it-py==4.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   rich
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
    #   xblock
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pylint
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   markdown-it-py
mock==5.2.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
more-itertools==10.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   jaraco-classes
    #   jaraco-functools
nh3==0.3.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   readme-renderer
oauthlib==3.3.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
openedx-django-pyfs==3.8.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
openedx-filters==2.1.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
packaging==25.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   pyproject-api
    #   tox
    #   twine
platformdirs==4.4.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   pylint
    #   tox
    #   virtualenv
pluggy==1.6.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   tox
psutil==7.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pycodestyle==2.14.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
pycparser==2.22
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cffi
pycryptodomex==3.23.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
pygments==2.19.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   readme-renderer
    #   rich
pyjwt==2.10.1
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
pylint==3.3.8
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-lint
    #   pylint-celery
    #   pylint-django
    #   pylint-plugin-utils
pylint-celery==0.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-lint
pylint-django==2.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-lint
pylint-plugin-utils==0.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pylint-celery
    #   pylint-django
pymongo==4.14.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-opaque-keys
pynacl==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pypng==0.20220715.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock-sdk
pyproject-api==1.9.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   tox
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   arrow
    #   botocore
    #   xblock
python-slugify==8.0.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
pytz==2025.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
    #   xblock
readme-renderer==44.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   twine
requests==2.32.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cookiecutter
    #   coveralls
    #   id
    #   requests-toolbelt
    #   twine
    #   xblock-sdk
requests-toolbelt==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   twine
rfc3986==2.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   twine
rich==14.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   cookiecutter
    #   twine
s3transfer==0.13.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   boto3
secretstorage==3.3.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   keyring
simplejson==3.20.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
six==1.17.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-ccx-keys
    #   edx-lint
    #   fs
    #   fs-s3fs
    #   python-dateutil
sqlparse==0.5.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   django
stevedore==5.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-opaque-keys
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   python-slugify
tomlkit==0.13.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   pylint
tox==4.29.0
    # via -r requirements/tox.txt
twine==6.1.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
types-python-dateutil==2.9.0.20250822
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   arrow
typing-extensions==4.15.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   edx-opaque-keys
urllib3==1.26.20
    # via
    #   -c requirements/constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   botocore
    #   requests
    #   twine
virtualenv==20.34.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/tox.txt
    #   tox
web-fragments==3.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   bleach
webob==1.8.9
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
xblock==5.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   xblock-sdk
xblock-sdk==0.13.0
    # via -r requirements/test.txt
zipp==3.23.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.txt
    #   importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
