#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.11
# by the following command:
#
#    make upgrade
#
appdirs==1.4.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   fs
arrow==1.3.0
    # via cookiecutter
asgiref==3.8.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django
astroid==3.2.3
    # via
    #   pylint
    #   pylint-celery
attrs==23.2.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
backports-tarfile==1.2.0
    # via jaraco-context
binaryornot==0.4.4
    # via cookiecutter
bleach==6.1.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
boto3==1.34.144
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   fs-s3fs
botocore==1.34.144
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   boto3
    #   s3transfer
certifi==2024.7.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   requests
cffi==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   cryptography
    #   pynacl
chardet==5.2.0
    # via binaryornot
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   click-log
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-lint
click-log==0.4.0
    # via edx-lint
code-annotations==1.8.0
    # via edx-lint
cookiecutter==2.6.0
    # via xblock-sdk
coverage[toml]==7.6.0
    # via coveralls
coveralls==4.0.1
    # via -r requirements/test.in
cryptography==42.0.8
    # via secretstorage
ddt==1.7.2
    # via -r requirements/test.in
dill==0.3.8
    # via pylint
django==4.2.14
    # via
    #   -c requirements/common_constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django-appconf
    #   django-config-models
    #   django-crum
    #   django-filter
    #   django-statici18n
    #   django-waffle
    #   djangorestframework
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   jsonfield
    #   openedx-django-pyfs
    #   openedx-filters
    #   xblock-sdk
django-appconf==1.0.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django-statici18n
django-config-models==2.7.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
django-crum==0.7.9
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
django-filter==24.2
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
django-statici18n==2.5.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
django-waffle==4.1.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
djangorestframework==3.15.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   -r requirements/test.in
    #   django-config-models
dnspython==2.6.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   pymongo
docopt==0.6.2
    # via coveralls
docutils==0.21.2
    # via readme-renderer
edx-ccx-keys==1.3.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
edx-django-utils==5.14.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django-config-models
edx-lint==5.3.7
    # via -r requirements/test.in
edx-opaque-keys[django]==2.10.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-ccx-keys
fs==2.4.16
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   fs-s3fs
    #   openedx-django-pyfs
    #   xblock
fs-s3fs==1.1.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   openedx-django-pyfs
    #   xblock-sdk
future==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   pyjwkest
idna==3.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   requests
importlib-metadata==6.11.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements/common_constraints.txt
    #   keyring
    #   twine
isort==5.13.2
    # via pylint
jaraco-classes==3.4.0
    # via keyring
jaraco-context==5.3.0
    # via keyring
jaraco-functools==4.0.1
    # via keyring
jeepney==0.8.0
    # via
    #   keyring
    #   secretstorage
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
jmespath==1.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   boto3
    #   botocore
jsonfield==3.1.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
keyring==25.2.1
    # via twine
lazy==1.6
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
lxml==5.2.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
mako==1.3.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via rich
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
    #   xblock
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via pylint
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mock==5.1.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
more-itertools==10.3.0
    # via
    #   jaraco-classes
    #   jaraco-functools
newrelic==9.12.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
nh3==0.2.18
    # via readme-renderer
oauthlib==3.2.2
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
openedx-django-pyfs==3.6.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
openedx-filters==1.9.0
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
pbr==6.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   stevedore
pkginfo==1.10.0
    # via twine
platformdirs==4.2.2
    # via pylint
psutil==6.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pycodestyle==2.12.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
pycparser==2.22
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   cffi
pycryptodomex==3.20.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   pyjwkest
pygments==2.18.0
    # via
    #   readme-renderer
    #   rich
pyjwkest==1.4.2
    # via -r requirements/base.txt
pylint==3.2.5
    # via
    #   edx-lint
    #   pylint-celery
    #   pylint-django
    #   pylint-plugin-utils
pylint-celery==0.3
    # via edx-lint
pylint-django==2.5.5
    # via edx-lint
pylint-plugin-utils==0.8.2
    # via
    #   pylint-celery
    #   pylint-django
pymongo==4.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-opaque-keys
pynacl==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-django-utils
pypng==0.20220715.0
    # via xblock-sdk
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   arrow
    #   botocore
    #   xblock
python-slugify==8.0.4
    # via
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
pytz==2024.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   cookiecutter
    #   xblock
readme-renderer==44.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/test.in
    #   twine
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   cookiecutter
    #   coveralls
    #   pyjwkest
    #   requests-toolbelt
    #   twine
    #   xblock-sdk
requests-toolbelt==1.0.0
    # via twine
rfc3986==2.0.0
    # via twine
rich==13.7.1
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   twine
s3transfer==0.10.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   boto3
secretstorage==3.3.3
    # via keyring
simplejson==3.19.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   bleach
    #   edx-ccx-keys
    #   edx-lint
    #   fs
    #   fs-s3fs
    #   pyjwkest
    #   python-dateutil
sqlparse==0.5.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   django
stevedore==5.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   code-annotations
    #   edx-django-utils
    #   edx-opaque-keys
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via python-slugify
tomlkit==0.13.0
    # via pylint
twine==5.1.1
    # via -r requirements/test.in
types-python-dateutil==2.9.0.20240316
    # via arrow
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   edx-opaque-keys
urllib3==1.26.19
    # via
    #   -c requirements/constraints.txt
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   botocore
    #   requests
    #   twine
web-fragments==2.2.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   bleach
webob==1.8.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock
    #   xblock-sdk
xblock==4.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements/base.txt
    #   xblock-sdk
xblock-sdk==0.11.0
    # via -r requirements/test.in
zipp==3.19.2
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
